# ScrispR | MaG-scRipt
#### A software for Multiple Genetic Screens data visualization

*MaG-scRipt* produces visualization plots for MaGeCK screen data (RRA analysis). <br/>
This software designed to run from a linux command line, and it is written in R.<br/>
*MaG-scRipt* directly uses `gene_summary.txt` files generated by the **test** function from MaGeCK software. Output plots give information of quality control of the screen data and highligths the best hits of the multiple screen experiments.<br/>
Additionally, a control experiment `gene_summary.txt` file can be used to compare the different experiments to a control self-enrichment experiment (or any condition used as control). Also, `sgrna_summary.txt` files can be analyzed for QC as optional arguments.

[Citation](#citation)<br/>
[Motivation](#motivation)<br/>
[Dependencies](#dependencies)<br/>
[Usage](#usage)<br/>



## Citation
[PAPER PUBLICATION]


## Motivation
[Motivation: our experiments]


## Dependencies
You can either install these packages from R terminal or by running the installation script from linux terminal.<br/>

- Install from R terminal:<br/>
```r
install.packages("optparse")
install.packages("ggplot2")
install.packages("tidyr")
install.packages("reshape2")
install.packages("dplyr")
install.packages("stringr")
install.packages("tidyverse")
```
- Install using installation script:<br/>
Download `installation_scrispr.R` and run the following command in Linux terminal:
```bash
Rscript installation_scrispr.R
```



### USAGE
#### Recommendations:
Create a directory and copy there all the gene summary files you want to analyze. This will be the input directory (-i). Optionally, do the same thing with sgRNA summary files (-g). If you have a control gene summary file to analyze (-c), we recommend to put it in the parent directory for simplicity.
Next, open a terminal in linux and change directory where the ScrispR.R is located. Then type the commands as in the examples. Make sure you give the complete path to the file/folder as argument (you can easily do this copying the file/folder and clicking paste in the terminal). You can also provide an output folder, where files will be saved, otherwise, parent directory is default. You can also choose different output formats and select top cutoff.

Examples:
```bash
Rscript ScripsR.R -i path_to_results_directory
```
```bash
Rscript ScripsR.R -i path_to_results_directory -c path_to_control_file -p png -o path_to_output_directory -g path_to_sgRNA_input_directory
```

Mandatory arguments:<br/>
-i (input directory): **path** to the folder where gene summary files (test files) are located. All files in this folder will be taken as input.<br/>

Optional arguments:<br/>
-c: (control file): **path** to the control file (no control as default). <br/>
-o: (output directory): **path** to an existing folder where output files will be saved (input directory default).<br/>
-g: (sgRNA input directory): **path** to an existing folder where sgRNA summary files are saved.<br/>
-t: (top cutoff): **soon implementation**<br/>
-p: (plot format): just write one among these (png is default): png , pdf, ps, jpeg, tiff, bmp.<br/>

